# Automify - Automation Web Based Application for CarbonEthics

## 1. Installation and Environment Setup

### 1.1 Prerequisites
- Node.js 20+
- Python 3.10+
- PostgreSQL
- npm or yarn
- Zapier

### 1.2 Clone Repository
```sh
git clone https://github.com/mufidussani/carbonethics-workflow
cd carbonethics-workflow
```

## 2. Backend API Configuration (Django + PostgreSQL)

### 2.1 Navigate to Backend Directory
```sh
cd server
```

### 2.2 Set Up Virtual Environment
```sh
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # UNIX
venv\Scripts\activate  # WINDOWS
```

### 2.3 Install Dependencies
```sh
pip install requirement.txt
```

### 2.4 Configure Local PostgreSQL in `backend/backend/settings.py`
Create an .env file in the server directory to store your environment variables. This file should contain:
```sh
ZAPIER_WEBHOOK_URL = 

DB_ENGINE = 
DB_NAME = 
DB_USER = 
DB_HOST = 
DB_PORT = 
DB_PASSWORD = 
```
Replace each variable's value as needed.
Alternatively, duplicate the .env.example file to create a .env file, which contains the necessary configurations for your application.

### 2.5 Migrate Database
```sh
python manage.py makemigrations
python manage.py migrate
```

### 2.6 Run Backend Server
```sh
python manage.py runserver
```
Runs at [http://localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000)

### 2.8 List of API Endpoints in the Backend System

- `GET /api/login` - Login into your account
- `POST /api/register` - Create a new account
- `GET /api/users/:id` - Get account detail

- `GET /api/clients` - List all clients
- `POST /api/clients` - Create a new client
- `PUT /api/clients/:id` - Update a client
- `DELETE /api/clients/:id` - Delete a client

- `GET /api/requests` - List all requests 
- `POST /api/requests` - Create a new request
- `PUT /api/requests/:id` - Update a request
- `DELETE /api/requests/:id` - Delete a request

## 3. Frontend Setup (Next.js)

### 3.1 Navigate to Frontend Directory
```sh
cd web
```

### 3.2 Install Dependencies
```sh
npm install
```

### 3.3 Integration with Backend API
To connect the frontend client with backend api, create a new .env file in the web directory. The file should contain:
```sh
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL =
```
Fill this variable's value with the existing running api url in your localhost.

### 3.4 Start Development Server
```sh
npm run dev
```

### 3.5 Open Frontend App
[http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)

## 4. Workflow Automation (Zapier + Trello Integration)

### 4.1 Setting Up Zappier Integration
- Create a New Zap: Begin by logging into your Zapier account and initiating a new Zap
- Configure the Trigger by choosing "Webhook by Zappier" as the trigger app then select the "Catch Hook" event. 
- Insert the URL generated by Zapier into the ZAPIER_WEBHOOK_URL in the .env file located inside server directory.
- Set up actions by selecting Trello as the action app and choose "Create Card" event. Configure the necessary fields to define how and where the cards should be created which already accessible via this link [Board](https://trello.com/b/DNMKunKT/carbon-ethics-automify)
- Choose Gmail as the action app and select "Send Email" event. Fill in the required fields to specify email's recipient, subject, and body content.




